Indian Army is mandated to safeguard National Interests from External Aggression and Internal Subversion
    War Fighting to meet External Aggression.
    Internal Security Management to include Internal Threats.
    Force Projection.
    Peace Keeping Operations or Military Assistance to friendly foreign countries.
    Render Humanitarian Assistance, Disaster Relief and Aid to Civil Authorities.
COMMAND AND CONTROL OF THE INDIAN ARMY
The President of India is the Supreme Commander of the Indian Armed Forces. As in all democracies, the Indian Armed Forces are controlled by the elected political leadership of the Nation - The Government of India. Executive control is exercised sequentially through the Union Cabinet, the Defence Minister, the Chiefs of Staff Committee (COSC) and the Chiefs of Army, Naval and Air Staff of their respective Services. The Ministry of Defence handles matters related to personnel, financial and resource management


ARMED FORCES SPECIAL POWERS ACT (AFSPA)


India controls the highest battlefield in the world, the Siachen glacier, at 5000 metres above Mean Sea Level (MSL). 

India has the biggest "voluntary" army in the world. 

Indian soldiers are considered among the very best in high altitude and mountain warfare. 

The Indian army has a horsed cavalry regiment. It is among one of the last 3 such regiments in the world.

MARCOS: There are special forces and then there are the Indian Navy’s Marine Commandos or MARCOS. The Indian Navy’s elite special force, that specialises in everything from counter terrorism to underwater operations and sabotage to anti-piracy ops.

Para Commandos: Para (Special Forces), commonly known as Para SF, is the special operations unit of the Indian Army. It is attached to the Parachute Regiment. The unit is tasked with missions such as special operations, direct action, hostage rescue, counter-terrorism, unconventional warfare, special reconnaissance, foreign internal defense, counter-proliferation, counter-insurgency, seek and destroy and personnel recovery.

Ghatak Force: True to its name ghatak (which means 'killer' in Hindi), this infantry platoon goes for the kill and spearheads strikes ahead of a battalion. Every infantry battalion in the Indian Army has one platoon and only the most physically fit and motivated soldiers make it to the Ghatak Platoon.

COBRA: COBRA (Commando Battalion for Resolute Action) is a specialised unit of the CRPF (Central Reserve Police Force) that was formed to counter Naxalism in India. It's one of the few Indian special forces, that's exclusively trained in guerrilla warfare.

Force One: Force One came into being in the year 2010 after the deadly 26/11 terrorist strikes in Mumbai. The prime role of this special elite force is to protect the city of Mumbai from terrorist attacks. This force boasts of the fastest response time in the world and responds to a terror strike in less than 15 minutes. 

Special Frontier Force: Raised in the aftermath of the 1962 Sino-Indian war as a special force for covert operations behind Chinese lines in the event of another war with China, it was never really used for its intended role and has mainly served as an elite special operations and counter-insurgency force. 

National Security Guard: The National Security Guard is India's premier counter-terrorist force. The NSG provides security to VIPs, conducts anti-sabotage checks, and is responsible for neutralising terrorist threats to vital installations.

Garud Commando Force: The youngest special force of the services, the Garud Commando Force is entrusted with the duty of protecting critical Air Force bases, carrying out rescue operation during calamities and other missions in support of air operations.

special Protection Group: The Special Protection Group is a security force of the Government of India that is responsible for the protection of the Prime Minister of India, the former Prime Ministers and members of their immediate family members.




# https://www.scoopwhoop.com/inothernews/indian-special-forces/#.c76awuiqf
