indian navy 



DRDO AIP India Indigenously Developed Air Independent Propulsion System For Scorpene Submarine
No Chinese warship movement detected near crisis-hit Maldives: Indian Navy

SSN Submarine: India’s next Generation Nuclear Attack Submarines

Super Kalvari+ Class :- An Alternative Plan For Project P-75I Submarine

Maldives crisis: Operation Cactus-style military intervention by India would only give China the edge

INS Vikrant: INS Vikrant (víkrānta "courageous"[10]) (IAC-I) is the first aircraft carrier built in India and the first Vikrant-class aircraft carrier built by Cochin Shipyard (CSL) in Kochi, Kerala for the Indian Navy. The motto of the ship is Jayema Sam Yudhi Sprdhah, which is taken from Rigveda 1.8.3 and can be translated as "I defeat those who fight against me"

P-81 Neptune: Boeing P-8I described the aircraft as one of the best for surveillance in the world today. According to a Ministry of Defence release, "During the flight, he was given an exposure to various sensors and other sophisticated state-of-the-art equipment and their capabilities."

Read more at:
//economictimes.indiatimes.com/articleshow/49767751.cms?utm_source=contentofinterest&utm_medium=text&utm_campaign=cppst

INS Vishal: INS Vishal (Sanskrit: Vishal "giant") (IAC-II) is a planned aircraft carrier currently in its design phase, which will be built by Cochin Shipyard Limited for the Indian Navy. It is intended to be the first supercarrier to be built in India. 


INS Vikramaditya: INS Vikramaditya (Sanskrit, Vikramāditya meaning "Brave as the Sun") is a modified Kiev-class aircraft carrier which entered into service with the Indian Navy in 2013. She has been renamed in honour of Vikramaditya, a legendary emperor of Ujjain, India. 


Resolve Marine
INS Kadamba: INS Kadamba is an Indian Navy base located near Karwar in Karnataka. INS Kadamba is currently the third largest Indian naval base, and is expected to become the largest naval base in the eastern hemisphere after completion of expansion Phase IIB.

INS Betwa: INS Betwa (F39) is a Brahmaputra-class guided missile frigate currently in service with the Indian Navy. The ship is named for the Betwa River. 

INS Arudhaman: INS Arighat is the second Arihant-class submarine. It is the second nuclear-powered ballistic missile submarine being built by India. It is being built under the Advanced Technology Vessel (ATV) project to build nuclear submarines at the Ship Building Centre in Visakhapatnam.
 


BRAHMOS : It is the world's fastest anti-ship cruise missile in operation.The missile travels at speeds of Mach 2.8 to 3.0, which is being upgraded to Mach 5.0.


